1)Various sources of big data:
Ans-various sources of big data can be anything like:
 1)we can take a example of facebook we used to do upload images,videos etc. it is considerd as sources of big data.
    according to the survey 7 peta bite data generates daily basis.
 2)we can take a example online shopping where huge data stored daily basis.
 3)other is banks where daily huge transactions takes place everyday that is also the source of big data.
 4)stock excange is also the example of big data where 4-5 terabite data generates daily.
 5)internet archieves stores around 18.5 petabite data daily basis that is also best source of big data.
 
 2)3 v's of big data:
 Ans:1) Volume-quantity of data.
     2) velocity-how much data is generating(flow of data)
     3) variety-types of data(Structured.un-Structured,semi-Structured)
     
 3)horizontal scaling and vertical scaling:
 Ans: Horizontal scaling: when we decentralize the operation of data instead of increasing the load of one machine ,we use more 
 machine to store and process of data.
       Vertical scaling:when we centralize our operation of data ,we depend upon only one machine to operate the data.
       demerits:1)process of data may be slow.
                2)cost increase
 
 4) need and working of hadoop:
  Ans: need of hadoop for following reasons:
  1. To manage high volume of data in cost effective manner
  2. To unify different varieties of data spread across heterogeneous systems
  3. To capture data from fast-occurring events
  4. To analyze high volume and wide variety of data to generate valuable insight
  working of hadoop:
  The way HDFS works is by having a main NameNode and multiple data nodes on a commodity hardware cluster. 
  All the nodes are usually organized within the same physical rack in the data center. 
  Data is then broken down into separate blocks that are distributed among the various data nodes for storage. 
  Blocks are also replicated across nodes to reduce the likelihood of failure.
